## Introduction
As the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) continues to grow, AI has emerged as a novel way to not only analyse the ESG scores, but also to predict them. AI can help investors in
identifying sustainable investment opportunities through the use of machine learning algorithms such as the Random Forests algorithm. However, AI remains a black box; the predictions of AI algorithms are often unclear and unreliable, giving importance to the rising field of Explainable AI (XAI). Therefore, it is necessary to examine how AI makes its predictions so that we arrive at the most accurate results possible.
## Applying Random Forests to Predict E and S Scores
We constructed two classifiers that use the Random Forests algorithm to predict the E and S scores of firms from Corporate ESG dataset. The target variable for the E score classifier is
‘HighE75perc’ whilst the target variable for the S score classifier is ‘HighS75perc’. For each classifier, we split the dataset into a training set to train the classifier and a testing set to determine the accuracy of the classifiers. Using the randomForest package in R, we train the two Random Forests classifiers, and then gauge the accuracy of the results using two confusion matrices for the training set and two confusion matrices for the testing set. For the E score classifier, we received an accuracy score of 86.71% for the training set and a score of 82.13% for the testing set. For the S score classifier, we received an accuracy score of 83.88% for the training set and a score of 77.21% for the testing set. We conclude that we need more data to reach a higher accuracy percentage.
## Explainable AI
In our model for the US corporate database, application of XAI is crucial in providing explanations on what features influenced our E and S score classifiers. Using XAI, we can ascertain which features were important in the prediction of the model. In the coding part, for feature importance plotting we used the Interpretable Machine Learning (IML) package. The trained random forest model was used to ascertain which features were important with use of cross entropy determining reduction in loss when feature is included and when not included.
